Awesome Aips 1.0NO WARRANTY-----------THIS MOD (Awesome Aips, any version) IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY REGARDING MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR ANY OTHER WARRANTIES EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED. THE AUTHORS/CREATORS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR DATA LOSS, DAMAGES, LOSS OF PROFITS OR ANY OTHER KIND OF LOSS WHATSOEVER WHILE USING OR MISUSING Awesome Aips, any version, OR ANY FILES ASSOCIATED WITH Awesome Aips, any version.-----------The authors/creators are in no way associated with Activision or other company that is involved with Civilization: Call to Power.---------------by NORDICUS, aka Thomas Hempstock.Files merged with mine are the hard work of WES WHITAKER.A thousand thanks to Timothy Pintello, Skorpion59 (aka. Don Blevins) for playtesting (and Wes), as well as Apolyton...also, special thank yous to Markos Giannopoulos and TP (Thomas), as well for so many suggestions: Simpson, Big Dave, Daniel Frappier, JimMac, John LeMaitre, hexagonian, Monkey (aka. Martin), Gemini (aka. Darryl), TheBirdMan, Eli K. Moore, Demolition, Atahualpa, Harlan Thompson, Chris Whitaker, Lucky, Pchang (aka.Patrick Chang), Vlad (aka. Brian Burkholder), and anyone else who gave me good (or not so good ;)  ) suggestions, and my apologies if I forgot you (don't put up with that--email me! :)  ), as well as CD (Tucson Luke Loh) and Dutcheese for their initial work, discoveries, and documentation.It's not complete yet, but I'd like thanks these guys in advance.Our aidata files--fused with & including those of Wes Whitaker--have been thoroughly tested, and in this tedious testing, we have found some improvements with AI civs' attitudes & behaviors.The dip_str and info_str were changed because I grew tired of the AI's vocabulary and choice of general phrases, statements, et cetera. I wanted to expand these in some cases and in others make it all sound a tad more realistic, i.e. not so lame and monotonous. This version has improvements over the last regarding dialogue, and many problems have been worked out, but further testing is necessary for all the bugs to be eliminated. Therefore, you may see instances where a message says something like 
, but these have no effect on gameplay. The default/aidata files that I have altered:diplomacy_begin.fliThis file is responsible for loading all relevant data used by the AI at the start of its turn and beginning diplomacy. This is the 'main' diplomacy file and it's distinctive from the others, and the changes I've made are very briefly listed here. I could be more specfic, but that would take a while. :) Anyway, to make the AI a worthy, intelligent, and humanlike opponent, we thought these changes were necessary--in all files mentioned here or those that will be--but a much more complex and detailed list can be made available if required, but just not for a while. :) Note: WAIS refers to Wandering AI Syndrome, our moniker for the AI
s habit or consistently and persistently violating its no-trespassing agreements.1. WAIS balance: stricter border policy2. Lower Regard for fighting AI's friends3. Fewer WAIS: AI "incurions" adjusted4. Trust values changed (neutrality created)5. Lower Regard between AIs' Treaties broken6. Regard lost to 1st place AI: distrust added, less hate7. Regard lost to 1st place human: distrust added, less hate8. Stronger Reaction by AI to closeness and quantity of others on same continent9. Stronger Reaction by AI to human special attack10. Stronger Reaction by AI to human many special attacks11. Reaction to a little pirating: less trust12. Weaker Reaction by AI to human trespassing to balance--values lowered--still very little tolerance13. Slightly weaker reaction to human some trespasses--but values changed14. Stronger Reaction to human & AI trespassing, many15. Weaker Reaction to one demand rejected (AI will be neutral)16. Higher Regard for attacking AI's enemy (trust)17. Stronger Reaction by AI to attack other AI18. Stronger Reaction by AI if human keeps word (trust)19. A bit weaker Reaction by AI if human breaks stop pollution ONCE--only once20. A bit weaker Reaction by AI if human attacks AI's friend ONCE--only once21. Stronger Reaction by AI if human builds wormhole-- no trust, extreme cold war, etc.22. Stronger Reaction by AI if AI builds wormhole23. Higher Regard between AIs when human builds wormhole 24. Changed Regard lost to being human--if peaceful, neutrality by AI25. Changed Regard lost to being human --if warlike, less 'bad feeling,' more distrust26. WAIS (Wandering AI Syndrome) Vaccine27. Less Trust when attacking AI's friends28. Added Regard setting for 
 if it does not remove troops from your territory (AI reaction will be slight), new "hate_attack" input29. see 28 but for warlike civ30. see 28 but for peaceful civ31. see 28 but for alliances32. see 28 but for Peace Treaty33. Last place low Regard added for 1st warlike AI that considers last place civ (any) too close and too weak34. see 33 but not very close (on same continent, however)diplomacy_accepted.fliThis file is responsible for determining the AI's reactions & regard, i.e., how it "feels" when X happens. For example, if you break a no-trespassing agreement (and you're warlike and the AI doesn't like you or trust you and *whatever*), the AI will react to it according to the pre-defined code in this file. In the situation just described, it won't react in a very friendly way at all.35. Neutral Regard for human Accepted greetings36. Higher Regard for human Accepted advance demand37. Higher Regard for human Accepted gold demand38. Lower Regard for human Accepted stop pirate demand39. Higher Regard for human Accepted attacking enemy of AI demand40. Lower Regard if the AI Accepted human offer of gold41. Lower Regard if the AI Accepted human offer of map exchange42. Lower Regard if the AI Accepted human offer of map offer43. Lower Regard if the AI Accepted human offer of ecopact offer44. Loyality inputs (trust) added45. More trust for keeping Stop Trespass agreement with AI46. More trust for keeping Reduce Pollution agreement with AI 47. More trust for keeping Stop Piracy agreement with AI48. More trust for keeping Attack Enemy agreement with AI49. War-time advance exchange Regard: Neutral50. War-time map exchange Regard: Neutral51. Accepted Peace Treaty Regard adjusted52. Accepted Cease Fire Regard adjusteddiplomacy_rejected.fliThis is very much like diplomacy_accepted, except that it handles the 'Rejected' side of the coin.53. Stronger Reaction to human Rejected stop trespassing54. Stronger Reaction to human Rejected attack enemy demand55. Reaction to Rejected exchange advance neutral56. Stronger Reaction to Rejected exchange advance (if AI-human equal)57. Increased AI offering "Peace Treaty" (a peace-time "cease fire" agreement)diplomacy_pre_incoming.fliThis file is responsible for handling "incoming" diplomacy: how the AI deals with you or other AIs.58. Increased AI attack on 3rd party59. Increased Reaction to human demanding AI attack60. Increased Reaction by AI to leave lands61. Lower Regard by AI after Accepted map offer62. Increased Reaction to Cease Fire offer63. Increased Reaction to Peace Treaty offer64. Increased Reaction to Alliances offer65. Increased Reaction to exchange advance offer66. Increased Reaction to map exchange offer67. All Regard concerning maps Neutral68. AI may Accept wartime map exchange69. AI Response to "Leave Lands": added for like, love, or neutral Regard70. see 69 but for trust71. see 69 but if AI is last place72. see 69 but if you (or the civ whose borders are being violated) are in 1st placediplomacy_pre_outgoing.fliThis file, similar to pre_incoming, is responsible for handing "outgoing" diplomacy.73. Increased AI demand for advances74. Increased AI demand for gold75. Increased AI demand to stop trade with...76. Increased AI demand to attack enemy (if allied)77. Increased AI demand to exchange advances78. Map priority changed79. Increased AI offers of map exchange80. Increased AI offers of Peace Treaty
81. ...but not if allied82. Increased AI offers of Cease Fire83. Increased AI offers to form alliance84. Increased AI offers of Advance if AI is losing war--if AI is warlike85. Increased AI offers of Advance if AI is losing war--if AI is peaceful86. Increased AI offers of Gold if AI is losing war--if AI is warlike87. Increased AI offers of Gold if AI is losing war--if AI is peaceful88. Increased AI offers of exchanging Advances if AI is warlikeNote that a lot of these are 'depending' or relative to whatever circumstances. The majority of default or CD's enhanced circumstances have not been changed. Some have been by necessity of the specific change or to keep the "fuzzy logic" rules applicable.So, that's those five files. slaver.aipThis file is responsible for defining the personality type of the Slaver. Changes include:89. Intense desire to build Emancipation Act Wonder90. More corporate, "greedy," behavior especailly after Emanc. Act wonder is built and slaves are freed91. Increased interest in wonders that increase gold and trade92. Increased interest in advances that increase gold and trade93. Increased interest in city improvements that increase gold and tradepersonality.fli Files for WarMany, WarFew, SciMany, SciFew, Cleric, and Slaver have been changed to balance the AI offering Peace Treaties.String text files--for the english/gamedata side. info_str.txtThis file is responsible for sending to you many warnings, most messages, and a few diplomacy messages also. The changes here are entirely optional--any version of Awesome Aips will function just fine without this file or the next one ("dip_str.txt"). The changes are mainly just improvements with grammar, vocabulary, consistency, etc., as well as more interesting (not so dull or corny) and/or accurate for the situation. Again, the mod will function perfectly without it.dip_str.txt The second string file, it has been completely re-worked. This file is responsible for all diplomatic phrases, statements, etc., seen during diplomacy. Due to the unique nature of this file's structure (randomness, for example, in responses), it has been very problematic getting most changes to take effect in the desired way. The crashes have been eliminated, but there are still some rare gramatical errors.Still, like the other string text file, the mod will work the same without this file. It is optional.Since the AI behaved much smarter, I thought it necessary for it to sound smarter as well. The changes are way too numerous to list, but overall they consist of an expanded and varied AI vocabulary, (less insulting terms, less mundane and monotonous reactions to exchanges, demands, etc.), and generally an increased diplomatic tone from the AI. And that
s it.Please let me know if there's any goof-ups, bugs, oversights, or anything else that doesn't seem right. I'm certain it can be corrected. Lemme know.So, to warn you, if your system explodes or you are hospitalized from stress regarding any of our files, I do sympathize but cannot assume responsibility. ;)And you may tamper with, distribute freely, destroy, criticize ruthlessly, abuse, ignore, or otherwise pervert any of these files--just name me as the culprit. Thanks.And I'm speaking for myself and only for my modified files, not those of Wes Whitaker; see his read me for what you may do to his files. ;)Any comments, constructive criticism, problems, whatever, can be posted at the Aployton site CTP forums, in the Creation or General sections. Or you may reach the authors through email links there.If you find anything at all not quite right, please let us know as soon as you can; that way we can correct it more quickly. Thank you.Enjoy, and have a day! Thomas (Nordicus).
